(Docs) Add documentation for `allow_any_plan` and `allow_any_task` (#2936)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/boltspec_reference.md

tests for plans. For more information about writing unit tests for plans, and
how to use these functions, see [Testing plans](testing_plans.md).

> ## Any stubs

Reviewer: This section should probably come _after_ the "Stubs" section.

Plans often execute sub-plans with the `run_plan` function to build complex
workflows. When testing these plans, it might be helpful to execute any
sub-plans as well without needing to stub or mock the plan. To support this,

> `BoltSpec` offers two different modes:

Reviewer: This intro paragraph should more closely match the intro for "Stubs". Because the `allow_any_*` stubs allow you to stub _all_ related function invocations, we should mention where they might be helpful (such as when you invoke `run_task` many times in a plan and don't want to invoke `allow_task` for each individual task).

### `allow_any_plan`

> The `allow_any_plan` function stubs the [`run_plan`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `allow_any_plan` function stubs all invocations of the [`run_plan`
```

We should clarify that it stubs _all_ invocations of the plan function. Same for all of the other `allow_any_*` functions.

function](plan_functions.md#run-plan). It does not accept any parameters.

The `allow_plan` function accepts the following modifiers:

- `be_called_times(number)`

>   The test fails if any plan is run more than _number_ times.

Reviewer: Is it that each individual plan can be called up to _number_ times, or that you can only have up to _number_ `run_plan` invocations?

Author: I went [here](https://github.com/puppetlabs/bolt/blob/main/spec/bolt_spec/plan_spec.rb#L404) and changed `allow_any_plan` to `allow_any_plan.be_called_times(1)` and the test passed. Since this plan calls another plan, I think its safe to say that each plan can be called up to _number_. Thanks for the clarifying question😌

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.be_called_times(3)
  ```

- `not_be_called`

  The test fails if any plan is run.

  ```ruby

>   allow_plan('count').not_be_called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allow_any_plan.not_be_called
```

  ```

- `with_params(parameters)`

  The parameters and [options](plan_functions.md#run-plan) that can be passed to
  the `run_plan` function. The test fails if any plan is run with a different
  set of parameters and options.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.with_params({ 'fruit' => 'apple', '_run_as' => 'root' })
  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for the `PlanResult` object returned by every plan. The
  `PlanResult` object returned by this modifier always has a `success` status.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.always_return(318)
  ```

- `return(&block) { |plan, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `PlanResult` returned by the `run_plan`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.return do |plan, params|
    Bolt::PlanResult.new(100, 'success')
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the value for the `PlanResult` object returned by each plan. The
  `PlanResult` object returned by this modifier always has a `failure` status.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.error_with('Too many apples, buffer overflow!')
  ```

>   ### `allow_any_task`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `allow_any_task`
```

  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` for each task that is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.always_return({ 'happy' => true })
  ```

- `return_for_targets(targets_to_values)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` when each task is run. Accepts a
  hash of key-value pairs where each key is a target and the value is the value
  for that target's `Result`.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task('pet_dog').return_for_targets(
    'target1' => { 'happy' => true },
    'target2' => { 'happy' => false }
  )
  ```

- `return(&block) { |targets, task, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `ResultSet` returned by the `run_task`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.return do |targets, task, params|
    results = targets.map do |target|
      Bolt::Result.new(target, value: { 'happy' => true })
    end

    Bolt::ResultSet.new(results)
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the error hash for each target's `Result` for each task that is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.error_with('msg' => 'There are no German Shepherds to pet.')
  ```

> 
> ### `execute_no_plan`
> 
>   If a test is run in `execute_no_plan` mode, `BoltSpec` does not run any plan
>   that is invoked with the `run_plan` function. If `BoltSpec` encounters a
>   `run_plan` function and it is not stubbed or mocked, the test fails. This mode
>   is useful for ensuring that your plan is not running any unexpected sub-plans.
>   Test authors should stub or mock all sub-plans that might be invoked during a
>   test.
> 
>   ```ruby
>   it 'executes a task' do
>     execute_no_plan
> 
>     # Test code . . .
>   end
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### `expect_out_message`

> The `expect_out_message` function mocks the [`out::message` function](plan_functions.md#out::message).
> It does not accept parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `expect_out_message` function mocks the [`out::message` function](plan_functions.md#outmessage). It does not accept parameters.
```

### `allow_out_message`

> The `allow_out_message` function stubs the [`out::message` function](plan_functions.md#out::message). 
> It does not accept parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `allow_out_message` function stubs the [`out::message` function](plan_functions.md#outmessage). It does not accept parameters.
```

  ```ruby
  allow_upload('sshd_config').error_with('msg' => 'Not authorized')
  ```
  
## Global stubs

Global stubs allow you to stub all related function invocations. This can be useful in
larger plans. For example, `allow_any_task` can be used in place of invoking `run_task` 
for each individual task. All global stub functions follow the `allow_any_*` naming
scheme.

### `allow_any_plan`

The `allow_any_plan` function stubs all invocations of the [`run_plan`
function](plan_functions.md#run-plan). It does not accept parameters.

> The `allow_plan` function accepts the following modifiers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `allow_any_plan` function accepts the following modifiers:
```

  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` for each task that is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.always_return({ 'happy' => true })
  ```

- `return_for_targets(targets_to_values)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` when each task is run. Accepts a
  hash of key-value pairs where each key is a target and the value is the value
  for that target's `Result`.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task('pet_dog').return_for_targets(
    'target1' => { 'happy' => true },
    'target2' => { 'happy' => false }
  )
  ```

- `return(&block) { |targets, task, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `ResultSet` returned by the `run_task`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.return do |targets, task, params|
    results = targets.map do |target|
      Bolt::Result.new(target, value: { 'happy' => true })
    end

    Bolt::ResultSet.new(results)
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the error hash for each target's `Result` for each task that is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.error_with('msg' => 'There are no German Shepherds to pet.')
  ```

> ## Execution modes

Reviewer: Why did this section get moved to the end of the page?

Author: Not really sure. 🤔. I'll move it back to the top :)

  ```ruby
  allow_upload('sshd_config').error_with('msg' => 'Not authorized')
  ```
  

> ## Any stubs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Stubs
```
"Any stubs" is a little confusing for a heading

Reviewer: @hestonhoffman We already have a ["Stubs" section](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/boltspec_reference.html#stubs) that lists all the `allow_*` functions, which are different from the `allow_any_*` functions.

Last Friday we were chatting about whether they should just be grouped together under the "Stubs" section since they do similar things (stub plan function invocations), or whether they were distinct enough to warrant their own section (they stub _all_ invocations of a given plan function, instead of a specific one).

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see. I missed that. Let me take another look at the whole doc.

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see what happened. The intro to Stubs and Any stubs are almost identical so I confused them for the same section. I definitely have a bit of post-vacation breain. I'll edit the intro below. However, I think we need a better name to refer to these "any" stubs. "Global stubs" is used in the table below. How does that sound?

Reviewer 2: Oh, and I could kind of go either way as far as whether they need their own section or not. If it were me, I think I'd probably nest them under the stubs section.

> Stubs serve two purposes when you are writing tests for your plans: they allow
> plan functions to be invoked during a plan run and also allow you to set
> their return values. For example, you might use a stub to allow the `run_task`
> function to be invoked any number of times during a test. `allow_any_*` stubs 
> allow you to stub _all_ related function invocations. This can be useful in larger
> plans. For example, `allow_any_task` can be used in place of invoking `run_task` 
> for each individual task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stubs serve two purposes when you are writing tests for your plans: they allow
plan functions to be invoked during a plan run and they allow you to set
return values for functions. For example, you might use a stub to allow the `run_task`
function to be invoked any number of times during a test. `allow_any_*` stubs
allow you to stub all related function invocations. This can be useful in larger
plans. For example, `allow_any_task` can be used in place of invoking `run_task` 
for each individual task.
```

### `allow_any_plan`

The `allow_any_plan` function stubs all invocations of the [`run_plan`

> function](plan_functions.md#run-plan). It does not accept any parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
function](plan_functions.md#run-plan). It does not accept parameters.
```

The `allow_plan` function accepts the following modifiers:

- `be_called_times(number)`

>   The test fails if any plan is run more than _number_ times. Each 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The test fails if any plan is run more than _number_ times.
```

  The test fails if any plan is run.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.not_be_called
  ```

- `with_params(parameters)`

  The parameters and [options](plan_functions.md#run-plan) that can be passed to
  the `run_plan` function. The test fails if any plan is run with a different
  set of parameters and options.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.with_params({ 'fruit' => 'apple', '_run_as' => 'root' })
  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for the `PlanResult` object returned by every plan. The
  `PlanResult` object returned by this modifier always has a `success` status.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.always_return(318)
  ```

- `return(&block) { |plan, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `PlanResult` returned by the `run_plan`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.return do |plan, params|
    Bolt::PlanResult.new(100, 'success')
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the value for the `PlanResult` object returned by each plan. The
  `PlanResult` object returned by this modifier always has a `failure` status.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.error_with('Too many apples, buffer overflow!')
  ```

### `allow_any_task`

The `allow_any_task` function stubs the [`run_task`

> function](plan_functions.md#run-task). It does not accept any parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
function](plan_functions.md#run-task). It does not accept parameters.
```

  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.always_return({ 'happy' => true })
  ```

- `return_for_targets(targets_to_values)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` when each task is run. Accepts a
  hash of key-value pairs where each key is a target and the value is the value
  for that target's `Result`.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task('pet_dog').return_for_targets(
    'target1' => { 'happy' => true },
    'target2' => { 'happy' => false }
  )
  ```

- `return(&block) { |targets, task, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `ResultSet` returned by the `run_task`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.return do |targets, task, params|
    results = targets.map do |target|
      Bolt::Result.new(target, value: { 'happy' => true })
    end

    Bolt::ResultSet.new(results)
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the error hash for each target's `Result` for each task that is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.error_with('msg' => 'There are no German Shepherds to pet.')
  ```

## Execution modes

Plans often execute sub-plans with the `run_plan` function to build complex

> workflows. When testing these plans, it might be helpful to execute any
> sub-plans as well without needing to stub or mock the plan. To support this,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
workflows. When testing a plan with sub-plans, it might be helpful to execute the
sub-plans without needing to separately stub or mock each one. To support this,
```

  ```ruby
  allow_upload('sshd_config').error_with('msg' => 'Not authorized')
  ```
  
## Global stubs

Global stubs allow you to stub all related function invocations. This can be useful in

> larger plans. For example, `allow_any_task` can be used in place of invoking `run_task` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
larger plans. For example, `allow_any_task` can be used in place of invoking `allow_task` 
```

for each individual task. All global stub functions follow the `allow_any_*` naming
scheme.

### `allow_any_command`

The `allow_any_command` function stubs all invocations of the [`run_command`

> function](plan_functions.md#run-command). It does not accept any parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function](plan_functions.md#run-command). It does not accept parameters.
```

```ruby
allow_any_command
```

The `allow_any_command` function accepts the following modifiers:

- `be_called_times(number)`

  The test fails if any one command is run more than _number_ of times.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_command.be_called_times(3)
  ```

- `not_be_called`

  The test fails if any command is run.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_command.not_be_called
  ```

- `with_targets(targets)`

  The target or list of targets that a command can be run on. The test fails
  if any command is run on a different list of targets.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_command.with_targets(['target1', 'target2', 'target3'])
  ```

- `with_params(parameters)`

  The [options](plan_functions.md#run-command) that can be passed to the
  `run_command` function. The test fails if any command is run with a different
  set of options.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_command.with_params({ '_run_as' => 'root' })
  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` when any command is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object. Only accepts `stderr` and `stdout` keys.

  ```ruby

>   allow_callow_any_commandommand.always_return({ 'stdout' => 'BoltyMcBoltface' })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allow_callow_any_command.always_return({ 'stdout' => 'BoltyMcBoltface' })
```

  ```ruby
  allow_any_download.with_targets(['target1', 'target2', 'target3'])
  ```

- `with_params(parameters)`

  The [options](plan_functions.md#download-file) that can be passed to the
  `download_file` function. The test fails if any file is downloaded with a
  different set of options.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_download.with_params({ '_run_as' => 'root' })
  ```

- `with_destination(destination)`

  The destination path that the file is downloaded to. The test fails if any
  file is downloaded to a different location.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_download.with_destination('kernel')
  ```

- `return(&block) { |targets, source, destination, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `ResultSet` returned by the `download_file`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_download.return do |targets, source, destination, params|
    results = targets.map do |target|
      Bolt::Result.new(target, value: { 'path' => File.join(destination, source) })
    end

    Bolt::ResultSet.new(results)
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the error hash for each target's `Result` when the file is downloaded.
  Returns a `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby

>   allow_any_download.error_with('msg' => 'File not found')

Reviewer: This needs three ticks to close off the code block.

### `allow_any_out_message`

The `allow_any_out_message` function stubs all invocations of the [`out::message`

> function](plan_functions.md#out-message). It does not accept parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function](plan_functions.md#outmessage). It does not accept parameters.
```

  The parameters and [options](plan_functions.md#run-plan) that can be passed to
  the `run_plan` function. The test fails if any plan is run with a different
  set of parameters and options.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.with_params({ 'fruit' => 'apple', '_run_as' => 'root' })
  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for the `PlanResult` object returned by every plan. The
  `PlanResult` object returned by this modifier always has a `success` status.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.always_return(318)
  ```

- `return(&block) { |plan, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `PlanResult` returned by the `run_plan`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.return do |plan, params|
    Bolt::PlanResult.new(100, 'success')
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the value for the `PlanResult` object returned by each plan. The
  `PlanResult` object returned by this modifier always has a `failure` status.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_plan.error_with('Too many apples, buffer overflow!')
  ```

### `allow_any_script`

The `allow_script` function stubs all invocations of the [`run_script`
function](plan_functions.md#run-script). It does not accept parameters.

```ruby

> allow_script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow_any_script
```

This code block is missing under `allow_any_out_message`, `allow_any_out_verbose`, `allow_any_task`, and `allow_any_plan`.

  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the error hash for each target's `Result` when any script is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_script.error_with('msg' => 'sh: command not found: apt-get')
  ```

### `allow_any_task`

The `allow_any_task` function stubs the [`run_task`
function](plan_functions.md#run-task). It does not accept parameters.

The `allow_any_task` function accepts the following modifiers:

- `be_called_times(number)`

  The test fails if the any one task is run more than _number_ times.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.be_called_times(3)
  ```

- `not_be_called`

  The test fails if any task is run.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.not_be_called
  ```

- `with_targets(targets)`

  The target or list of targets that a task can be run on. The test fails if
  any task is run on a different list of targets.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.with_targets(['target1', 'target2', 'target3'])
  ```

- `with_params(parameters)`

  The parameters and [options](plan_functions.md#run-script) that can be passed to the
  `run_task` function. The test fails if any task is run with a different
  set of parameters and options.

  ```ruby

>   allow__any_task.with_params({ 'breed' => 'german shepherd' })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allow_any_task.with_params({ 'breed' => 'german shepherd' })
```

  ```

- `always_return(value)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` for any task that is run. Returns a
  `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.always_return({ 'happy' => true })
  ```

- `return_for_targets(targets_to_values)`

  Sets the value for each target's `Result` when any task is run. Accepts a
  hash of key-value pairs where each key is a target and the value is the value
  for that target's `Result`.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task('pet_dog').return_for_targets(
    'target1' => { 'happy' => true },
    'target2' => { 'happy' => false }
  )
  ```

- `return(&block) { |targets, task, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `ResultSet` returned by the `run_task`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_task.return do |targets, task, params|
    results = targets.map do |target|
      Bolt::Result.new(target, value: { 'happy' => true })
    end

    Bolt::ResultSet.new(results)
  end
  ```

### `allow_any_upload`

> The `allow_upload` function stubs any invocation of the [`upload_file`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `allow_any_upload` function stubs any invocation of the [`upload_file`
```

  ```

- `with_params(parameters)`

  The [options](plan_functions.md#upload-file) that can be passed to the
  `upload_file` function. The test fails if any file is uploaded with a
  different set of  options.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_upload.with_params({ '_run_as' => 'root' })
  ```

- `with_destination(destination)`

  The destination path that a file is uploaded to. The test fails if any
  file is uploaded to a different location.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_upload.with_destination('/etc/ssh/sshd_config')
  ```

- `return(&block) { |targets, source, destination, params| ... }`

  Invokes a block to construct the `ResultSet` returned by the `upload_file`
  function.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_upload.return do |targets, source, destination, params|
    results = targets.map do |target|
      Bolt::Result.new(target, value: { 'path' => File.join(destination, source) })
    end

    Bolt::ResultSet.new(results)
  end
  ```

- `error_with(error)`

  Sets the error hash for each target's `Result` when any file is uploaded.
  Returns a `Bolt::ResultSet` object.

  ```ruby
  allow_any_upload.error_with('msg' => 'Not authorized')
  ```

> ### `allow_any_out_verbose`

Reviewer: The `allow_any_out_verbose` section should come immediately after the `allow_any_out_message` section.

The `allow_any_out_verbose` function stubs all invocations of the [`out::verbose`

> function](plan_functions.md#out-verbose). It does not accept parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function](plan_functions.md#outverbose). It does not accept parameters.
```

The `allow_any_out_verbose` function accepts the following modifiers:

- `be_called_times(number)`

  The test fails if `out::verbose` is run more than _number_ times. 

  ```ruby

>   allow_any_out_message.be_called_times(3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allow_any_out_verbose.be_called_times(3)
```
